---
layout: post
title:  "Waking Up Stages: Sometimes You Need A Lot of Coffee"
date:   2016-11-21 11:11:11 +0100
image: coffeephoto2.jpg
---

Are you a morning person? I am. Yep, I'm that weirdo. I can wake up at five in the morning and get right to work. I love mornings. It's a new day with new adventures, and I can't wait to get it all going. Waking up spiritually is a different story. I clung to my pillow as my sheets were ripped off, I growled ferociously at the intrusion upon my slumber, I smacked the snooze button on my alarm clock. I was not ready to change my perspective on life. I was being dragged out of bed whether I liked it or not. And because of my resistance, I had to make pot after pot of coffee to accept that I was waking up and I was waking up NOW.

Some of us humans are designed to go with the flow and can accept a shifting reality easier than others. Stubborn people, like myself, dig their heels in the ground when forced to do something that wasn't their idea in the first place. I am not saying that only stubborn people face hardship in an awakening, but I am saying that if you resist the changes, you will feel the tension physically and mentally. And you are going to need several gallons of that metaphorical coffee to push through it.

Not everyone goes through the stages of awakening--the rude beeping of the alarm, the battle to open your eyes, the dramatic stretching, the diddling with your phone for half an hour before your feet even hit the floor, the struggle to push yourself out of bed, the bleary-eyed shuffle to grab your cup of joe. Naw, some leap out of bed before their alarm clocks blare their morning song. We're not going to talk about those people here. In fact, they may excuse themselves from this post as we spiritual night-owls grumble and bury our jowls into some steamy java.

(I am kidding, you spiritual morning people. Kinda. But don't expect us to talk to you before our second cup.)

If you notice your spiritual awakening is happening in distinct stages, then you've come to the right place. If you've felt periods of strong symptoms and confusion, then welcome. For the next few posts, I'm going to break down each stage I went through by the events, emotions, symptoms, and what I did to avoid getting stuck.

The first stage we go through, isn't really a stage, but it is a state we must start with before this whole awakening thing can happen. First, we need to be [dreaming](/2016-11/waking-up-stages-it's-only-a-dream) in order to wake.

Links to stages:

[Pre-Awakening: It's Only a Dream](/2016-11/waking-up-stages-it's-only-a-dream)

[The Catalyst: BEEP! BEEP! BEEP!](/2017-01/waking-up-stages-beep-beep-beep)

[Identity Crisis: Waking Up is Hard to Do](/2017-02/waking-up-stages-waking-up-is-hard-to-do)

[Rehabilitation: Sunrise Shuffle](/2017-03/waking-up-stages-sunrise-shuffle)
